.\" vim:set tw=72 noet:
.\" Bulleted paragraph
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.
.TH VT220 "1" "July 2026" "unknown technologies" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
vt220 \- DEC VT220 terminal emulator
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vt220
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fB\,\-l\fR | \fB\-s\fR \fIcommand\fR |
\fB\-t\fR \fIhostname\fR \fIport\/\fR]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
The \fBvt220\fR program is a GPU accelerated terminal emulator which
emulates the DEC VT220 terminal with reasonable accuracy.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
display a short help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
disable glow post-processing effect.
.TP
\fB\-cg\fR
set monochrome screen color to green (default).
.TP
\fB\-cw\fR
set monochrome screen color to white.
.TP
\fB\-ca\fR
set monochrome screen color to amber.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fI0.75\fR
set the electron beam focus. The focus has to be greater than zero. A
focus below 1.0 makes the beam wider, a focus greater than 1.0 makes the
beam smaller.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fI1.0\fR
set the electron beam intensity (brightness). This value has to be
greater than zero.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
enables raw mode, which disables all post-processing. This option also
implies \fB\-g\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
uses the simple linear phosphor simulation model instead of the more
advanced default model.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
enables unlimited FPS mode. If this option is not set, then an automatic
frame limiter will limit the FPS to 60 if more than 240 FPS are rendered
otherwise. This seems to be necessary for NVIDIA T4 graphics cards.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
enables buffering with virtual XON/XOFF flow control. This limits the
receive speed of the terminal and visibly slows down processing,
comparable to a (pretty fast) RS232 line.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
enables local mode, which redirects all input to the screen. This is
equivalent of connecting the RX pin to the TX pin on a real VT220
terminal.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fI/bin/sh\fR
execute the program \fI/bin/sh\fR in the terminal emulator.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIhost\fR \fIport\fR
connect to the TELNET server at \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR.
.
.
.PP
If no option is provided, \fB\-s $(getent passwd $UID | cut \-d:
\-f7)\fR is assumed, which means the user's default shell is started.
.
.PP
When a program is run with \fB\-s\fR, the \fBTERM\fR environment
variable is set to \fBvt220\fR. If the \fBLANG\fR environment variable
is set to an UTF-8 locale, it is reset to \fBLANG=C\fR to avoid display
problems.
.
.SH KEYBOARD
A DEC VT220 does not have all the keys you usually find on a PC keyboard
and some keys have a very different meaning. In particular, the function
keys F1-F5 are \(lqlocal\(rq keys which configure the terminal and have no
associated sequence that could be sent to the host.
.PP
The VT220 emulator uses the following key map for local keys:
.bP
F1 = hold screen (toggle)
.bP
F3 = setup
.bP
F4 = fullscreen (toggle)
.bP
F5 = send BREAK (TELNET) / SIGINT (PTY)
.bP
CTRL-F5 = send answerback message
.
.PP
In addition, the VT220 has function keys F1-F20. The VT220 emulator
interprets ALT-F1 to ALT-F10 as F11 to F20.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by unknown.
.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report rendering glitches, general bugs, and deviations from the real
DEC VT220's behaivor, use the issue tracker at
.UR https://github.com/unknown-technologies/vt220
.UE
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MR telnet 1 ,
.MR vt240 1
